---
layout: post
title: "Tiles: An Easy Tool for Managing tmux Sessions"
date: 2015-12-06 19:29:24
categories:
  - tech
---

I use [tmux][tmux] extensively whenever I write code. Typically, I have about
ten or so tmux windows open on my main tmux session and may have one or two
other tmux sessions with fewer windows. My main tmux session is where I do most
of my work, and typically, I keep one window per project or bug I am working on.
I would use my other sessions for writing notes, doing operational tasks on the
cluster, etc.

[tmux]: https://tmux.github.io/

I found working with raw tmux commands to be cumbersome, so I wrote a simple
Python script, [Tiles][tiles], to make it easier for me to manage my tmux
sessions, create tmux sessions with a predefined list of windows, and attaching
to existing tmux sessions.

[tiles]: /tiles

Tiles reads a `.tiles` configuration file in your home directory. Typically, my
`.tiles` file on my home machine (where I often work on open source projects in
my spare time) might look something like the following:

```python
tmux_session(
    name = "default",
    windows = [
        ["tensorflow", "~/Projects/tensorflow/tensorflow"],
        ["bazel", "~/Projects/bazelbuild/bazel"],
        ["jsonnet", "~/Projects/google/jsonnet"],
    ],
)

tmux_session(
    name = "notes",
    windows = [
        ["notes", "~/Notes"],
        ["blog", "~/Projects/dzc/davidzchen.github.io"],
    ],
)
```

To launch a tmux session with the windows `"tensorflow"`, `"bazel"`, and
`"jsonnet"`, with each window startng in its respective directories, run:

```sh
tiles start default
```

Now, the `"default"` name is special, and running a `tiles` command without
specifying a name will cause `tiles` to look for a session called `"default"`.
Thus, to start my default session, I can simply run the following command:

```sh
tiles start
```

A work, I generally keep my tmux sessions running all the time on my desktop and
simply ssh in and attach to my tmux sessions. For example, to attach to an
existing tmux session called "ops", simply run:

```sh
tiles attach ops
```

Tiles also has a handy `tiles ls` command, which simply runs `tmux
list-sessions` to list the currently active sessions.

Some future improvements I planning to make to Tiles include:

* Making `tiles` available on PIP
* Configuring panes within each window
* Supporting [GNU Screen][gnu-screen] in addition to tmux

[gnu-screen]: https://www.gnu.org/software/screen/

If you want to give Tiles a try, check out the [Tiles website and
documentation][tiles] and [repository on GitHub][tiles-github]. Feel free to
[open an issue][tiles-issues] or [send a pull request][tiles-pr] if you have
any feature requests or find any bugs.

[tiles-github]: https://github.com/davidzchen/tiles
[tiles-issues]: https://github.com/davidzchen/tiles/issues
[tiles-pr]: https://github.com/davidzchen/tiles/pulls
